# CSE410 - Assignment 0 
## Due: 9/10/2019 18:00

This introductory assignment will serve to get partnerships established as well
as get GitHub repositories set up for use in future assignments. This should be
a pretty straightforward on-boarding assignment to get us rolling for the rest
of the semester.

## 1. Partners

Like most infrastructure projects you'll be working on in industry, the
Assignments and labs for this course will be performed in teams (of 2). This is
to give you a 'pair' (similar to the paired programming concept) to bounce ideas
off of, troubleshoot with, and help share the workload.

When selecting a partner for this course, it may be beneficial to find someone
with similar interests in systems to run on your shared hardware. That said, as
this is an academic course, it is also important to select a partner who is
interested in achieving the same grade as you. 

While the partner system allows for sharing of responsibility and workload, it
is **not acceptable for one student to perform all the work**. If you fear that
this is becoming the case, please address this with your partner and myself via
Email or Slack as the semester progresses. *Note: Quizzes may be based on lab
material as well so ensure both partners understand the implementation and concepts!*

If you are looking for a partner, feel free to reach out on slack or after class
to get paired up. Once you have found a partner, proceed to step 2 below.

## 2. GitHub Repository

For the majority of this course we will be using GitHub repositories to track
lab documentation in markdown files, store configuration, as well as submit 
assignments. This is how several open-source and enterprise projects
handle documentation so it'll be a good practice to get used to. While GitHub
does have a Wiki function built in, it is technically a separate embedded repo
and doesn't have the best of hierarchy support so for simplicity sake we will be
using plan markdown and README files.

### 2.1 GitHub Educational Pack

GitHub has a pretty solid [Education Pack](https://education.github.com/pack)
full of pro features and partnership programs with other companies they allow
you free access to tools for devops, monitoring, CI/CD, Agile Tracking, and
more. GitHub recently make private repos free for up to 3 collaborators, however
we make take advantage of some of the other educational pack perks later in the
semester.

If you have not already registered for the educational pack, take a few minutes
to do that now - it is usually approved within a few days.

### 2.2 Create a repository

Create a **Private** GitHub repository for use in this course, initialize it with
a readme and a description. Then invite your partner as well as myself
(@daviddob) to the repository.

## 3. Submit!

Fill out the following Google Form with your partner information as well as a
link to the GitHub repository.

https://forms.gle/HZHsoMQZA6esNpVKA